Authors: Jacky Guzman and Anne Lehr
Got help from Aadi. 

1. AES with Diffie-Hellman key exchange procedure: Alice can establish a shared key K with Bob 
by using the Diffie-Hellman key exchange procedure. After having agreed on the key K, Alice 
can go on and use the symmetric encryption algorithm AES to encrypt her long message to send 
it to Bob, AES(K, M). This works as AITM is impossible, so we do not need to worry about Eve 
reading the messages as she doesn't have access to K to be able to decypher the messages and 
read them. Bob, knowing K and having AES(K, M), will be able to decrypt the crypted message 
easily, AES_D(K, AES(K, M)) = M. 

2. AES, Diffie-Hellman with public/secret key pairs, and hash funciton SHA_256: In the 
Diffie-Hellman procedure, when exchanging information, Alice and Bob will have to encode 
the short/small information they send each other so that Mal has no opportunity to attempt 
an AITM attack. After having set on a shared key K, Alice will have to send Bob an encrypted 
long message along with the hash of the message so that Bob is able to tell if the message 
he receives was modified by Mal or not. (So Alice sends AES(K, M) along with H(M). Bob 
receives AES(K, M) and decrypts it, AES_D(K, AES(K, M)). He then computes H(M) and compares 
it with the hash he got from Alice and checks to see if they are the same or not. A 
difference of hash values lets Bob know the message has been tampered with.) 

3. AES, Diffie-Hellman, and public/secret key pairs: After having established a shared key  
value K using the Diffie-Hellman method, Alice and Bob are able to send each other long 
messages easily without having to worry about Eve being able to read what they send each 
other as AITM is impossible. Along with the encrypted message, AES(K, M), Alice will have to
encrypt the hash of the message using her secret key S_A, so that when Bob gets the encrypted 
message and hash value, he will know she sent it becasue he will have to use her public key 
to decrypt the hash value. After Bob decrypts the message with the key K and computes the hash 
of the message, he will be able to compare his hash with Alice's hash and see that not only 
was it Alice the one who sent him the message and hash, but Mal did not modify anything.  

4. Alice claims: 
(a) Someone replaced the contract and attached her digital signature to it
(b) Her secret key was stolen and used to create her digital signature, allowing for an enemy 
to input another contract and say that she indeed signed it. 
(c) She was tired that day and sent the wrong contract to the wrong person, accidentally causing 
all this mess. 
How plausible each claim is: 
(a) How is that possible? Wouldn't someone have to find a contract that would give back the same 
hash as the contract that was supposed to reach Bob? The chances of finding another contract that 
gives the same hash is near impossible. 
(b) The judge would give her the side-eye as secret keys are kept secret and are usually well 
hidden. Unless Alice was reckless and let others see her secret key, this is questionable. 
(c) There is no way Alice could have done that as she would have to calculate the hash of the 
contract and then use her public key to create her digital signature. That would need more than 
enough attention that would cause her to double-check the contract she is sending to Bob is the 
right one.


5. The formula CA would use to compute Sig_CA is: 
E(S_CA, H(Cert_B))

6. That is not enough for Alice to believe she is talking to Bob because the certificate could 
be expired or it could have been tampered with. (Or it could even be a fake!) Alice could 
encode a message using the public key in the certificate and ask Bob to send the message back 
to Alice in plain text. If it is the same message, Alice will know that Bob really is Bob. 

7. Two ways the certificate-based trust system could be subverted, allowing Mal to convince 
Alice that Mal is Bob: 
(one) Mal could easily let Alice interrogate Bob about his identity and truthfulness, but 
after that interrogation is over and Bob has established that he is the real Bob, Mal could 
still come in and continue on with his man-in-the-middle attack, pretending to be Bob and
modifying messages and whatnot (this would only work if the communication that is taking 
place between Alice, Mal, and Bob is through AES and not private/public key pairs).

(two) Mal could also use an expired certificate and pretend to be Bob. 

(used the website for help: https://www.portnox.com/cybersecurity-101/digital-certificates/ )

